README.md, before:

# `wbdiff` - Advanced diff utility

Diffing tool with few sophisticated features, hopefully makeing developer's life
easier.

Example output:

```
$ ./wbdiff tests/9/left tests/9/right
Removals from left file, moves and additions to right file:
--- tests/9/left
+++ tests/9/right
---------\ l0017-l0022 -> r0001-r0006  (5 lines)
 17->  1 | q
 18->  2 | r
 19->  3 | s
 20->  4 | t
 21->  5 | v
---------/
---------\ l0009-l0014 -> r0006-r0011  (5 lines)
  9->  6 | i
 10->  7 | j
 11->  8 | k
 12->  9 | l
 13-> 10 | m
---------/
   -> 11 + A
   -> 12 + E
---------\ l0001-l0009 -> r0013-r0021  (8 lines)
  1-> 13 | a
  2-> 14 | b
  3-> 15 | c
  4-> 16 | d
  5-> 17 | e
  6-> 18 | f
  7-> 19 | g
  8-> 20 | h
---------/
---------\ l0014-l0017 -> r0021-r0024  (3 lines)
 14-> 21 | n
 15-> 22 | o
 16-> 23 | p
---------/

Diff statistics:
	Initial context length used: 3
	Number of matching (extended) blocks: 4
	Number of lines in matching (extended) blocks: 21
	Number of lines removed from left file: 0
	Number of new lines added to right file: 2
	Weighted cost (blocks + removed + added): 5
```

Or in colors:

![](screenshot.png)

## Features:

  - Detection of moved code blocks
  - Shortening long blocks
  - Color output
  - Statistics at the end of diff output
  - Support for reading compressed files transparently (.gz, .bz2)
  - Ability to ignore certain types of changes
  - Normalization of lines
  - Diff algorithm and output tunable using command line options
  - Tested by more than dozen of unittests
  - Slowness

## TODO:

  - Good fuzzy matching
  - Adaptative moved blocks and fuzzy matching
  - Splited/merged lines detection
  - Recursive diffing of multiple files/directories
  - Speed optimizations


## History

This tool was created on one evening, when I was utterly annoyed by lack of good
diff tools. I checked about 15 of them, and actually Microsoft's free version
WinDiff was best (running in WINE)! However, I wanted simple tool, with ability
to work from command line natively on Linux, and more possible customizations.
Then in few hours I created wbdiff.py :) Works perfectly for me, producing
optimal diffs.

Copyright: Witold Baryluk, 2013, 2021

Commit message:

Refactors. Fuzzy matching. Simplify some parts. Asserts.
Make fuzzy matching work.
Tune heuristics.
Add fuzzy tests support to run-tests.sh
Add ability to run various differs for failures in run-tests.sh
Including wbdiff
Add more tunables via command line
Add --git mode, to not return non-zero at differing files
Fix detection of different files
Add gazillion of asserts
Add debug mode, that checks extra invariants.
Make folding of equal lines simpler and more robust.
Use while instead for loop for printing block
Update README a bit.
Refresh tests expectations.
Add ability to hide header and preamble.
Add line level diffing (similar to wdiff)
Probably few more things.

README.md, after:

# `wbdiff` - Advanced diff utility

Diffing tool with few sophisticated features, hopefully makeing developer's life
easier.

Example output:

```
$ ./wbdiff tests/9/left tests/9/right
Removals from left file, moves and additions to right file:
--- tests/9/left
+++ tests/9/right
---------\ l0017-l0022 -> r0001-r0006  (5 lines)
 17->  1 | q
 18->  2 | r
 19->  3 | s
 20->  4 | t
 21->  5 | v
---------/
---------\ l0009-l0014 -> r0006-r0011  (5 lines)
  9->  6 | i
 10->  7 | j
 11->  8 | k
 12->  9 | l
 13-> 10 | m
---------/
   -> 11 + A
   -> 12 + E
---------\ l0001-l0009 -> r0013-r0021  (8 lines)
  1-> 13 | a
  2-> 14 | b
  3-> 15 | c
  4-> 16 | d
  5-> 17 | e
  6-> 18 | f
  7-> 19 | g
  8-> 20 | h
---------/
---------\ l0014-l0017 -> r0021-r0024  (3 lines)
 14-> 21 | n
 15-> 22 | o
 16-> 23 | p
---------/

Diff statistics:
	Initial context length used: 3
	Number of matching (extended) blocks: 4
	Number of lines in matching (extended) blocks: 21
	Number of lines removed from left file: 0
	Number of new lines added to right file: 2
	Weighted cost (blocks + removed + added): 5
```

Or in colors:

![](screenshot.png)

## Features:

  - Detection of moved code blocks
  - Fuzzy matching on both block and line level
  - Adaptative moved blocks and fuzzy matching
  - Shortening of long blocks
  - Color output
  - Statistics at the end of diff output
  - Support for reading compressed files transparently (.gz, .bz2)
  - Ability to ignore certain types of changes
  - Normalization of lines
  - Diff algorithm and output tunable using command line options
  - Tested by more than dozen of unittests
  - Slowness

## TODO:

  - Splited/merged lines detection
  - Recursive diffing of multiple files/directories
  - Speed optimizations

## History

This tool was created on one evening, when I was utterly annoyed by lack of good
diff tools. I checked about 15 of them, and actually Microsoft's free version
WinDiff was best (running in WINE)! However, I wanted simple tool, with ability
to work from command line natively on Linux, and more possible customizations.
Then in few hours I created wbdiff.py :) Works perfectly for me, producing
optimal diffs.

Copyright: Witold Baryluk, 2013, 2021
